---
layout: post
title:  "Hedgehog1286 Board Info"
excerpt: "More information about the Hedgehog1286 board itself"
info: true
tag:
- Hedgehog1286
comments: false
---

The Hedgehog1286 is essentially a Teensy++ 2.0 clone with some alterations.

Like the Teensy++ 2.0 the Hedgehog1286 has an Atmel (Microchip) [at90USB1286](https://www.microchip.com/wwwproducts/en/AT90USB1286) 16MHz 8-Bit AVR microcontroller at it's core.

The at90USB1286 has 128KB of flash memory, 8KB of SRAM, and 4KB of EEPROM. As well as USB, SPI, UART, I2C, JTAG, and an 8-channel ADC.

The Hedgehog1286 has two microUSB ports, PWR and PC. The PC microUSB port provides data and 5v to the Hedgehog1286, and with the power switch set to 5v will allow the Hedgehog1286 to operate at 5v and supply around 500mA to anything connected to it.

The PWR microUSB port only supplies 3.3v to the Hedgehog1286, and should only be connected if the power switch is set to 3.3v. This will allow the Hedgehog1286 to operate at 3.3v and supply up to 2A to anything connected to it.

## Never have both USB cables plugged in if the power switch is set to 5v.

However you can have both USB cables plugged in if the power switch is set to 3.3v. Just make sure to move the power switch before connecting any USB cable to the Hedgehog1286.

The Hedgehog1286 supports USB full-speed and is programmable over USB using its DFU bootloader. You can check out the [Flashing The Hedgehog1286 page]({{ "/Flashing-The-Hedgehog1286/" | relative_url}}) for more info on how to do that.

The Hedgehog1286 has 46 I/O pins, 7 ground pins, and 7 power pins all broken out to pin header receptacles, 60 in total. Which can accept standard 2.54mm(0.100") pitch pin headers from either the top or bottom of the board. Each bank can accept 30 pins arranged as two rows of 15 pins. There is a bonus I/O that can be used on the board, ALE, which can be used if a pin is soldered to it. However this should only be used as an output, which is why it isn't part of the main I/O banks.

You can use the Arduino IDE or Atmel Studio with the Hedgehog1286, check out [Programming For The Hedgehog1286]({{ "/Programming-The-Hedgehog1286/" | relative_url}}) for more info.

The Hedgehog1286 has a green power LED (D1) as well as another green LED (D2) which is connected to pin D6.

---

Have any questions or just want to talk about the Hedgehog1286? Head on over to the [Riot.im](https://riot.im) room at [#hedgehog1286:matrix.org](https://riot.im/app/#/room/#hedgehog1286:matrix.org). Or you can of course e-mail me or leave a comment on the forum thread of your choice.